We assume that you would have set up the postgresql server and tph-h database in this instruction manual.
If you have not, please follow the lab manual provided on the course site to do so.

1. Unzip the download zipped file to your preferred destination

2. Using the command prompt terminal, cd to the directory you have our source code in:
i.e for example, my directory is C:\Users\tengwei\Desktop\CZ4031\Group24_source_code 

Hence, i would input the following command into the command prompt terminal:
cd C:\Users\tengwei\Desktop\CZ4031\Group24_source_code

3. Tnstall the latest version of the required listed packages by executing the following command:
pip install -r requirements.txt 

4. Configure attributes in the config.json before running step 5
Change the values in the pre-defined config.json file to your local postgreSQL server configuration
Please ensure the config.json is correct, as the application will not open unless it can connect to your local PostgreSQL server

5. Run the application by executing the following command:
python project.py


User Manual

After following the steps mentioned previously, we would like to walk you through our application.

1. Upon launching the program, the application would ask for the type of database you want.
As we are only using TCP-H, press the arrow down button, choose TCP-H and press the 'Select Database' button.

2. Upon choosing the database, you would be greeted with the second interface asking for your input query.
For convenience, we have preloaded 8 queries from the TCP-H file source for you to choose.

To choose the preloaded queries, press the arrow down button and select the desired query.
Next, press the 'Select Query' button to load and display the query.

If you choose to input custom query, you can type in the textbox provided under 'Please input your SQL query'.
Please do not include EXPLAIN in your custom input query.

3. After inputting the query, press the 'Submit' button to automatically produce the QEP, AQP, nodes and annotations.

4. A loading pop-up will appear after your press the 'Submit' button, and will automatically disppear after the execution of the query.

5. The step-by-step NLP description of the QEP will be displayed in the textbox under 'QEP Step-By-Step NLP'.
The nodes corresponding to the SQL conditions will also be generated in the frame 'QEP Visualise Plan'

6. To display the generated annotations, hover over the nodes to display the annotation for the specific node.
If there are alot of nodes generated, please use the scrollbar at the side of the frame 
to scroll up or down to display the nodes you wish to see.
P.S If the annotation does not appear on the first hover, please move your cursor away from the node and try again.
P.S If you are using 2 screens, please shift the window to the bigger screen,
as the application takes the bigger screen as the main window

7. To try any other queries, simply input the new query into the textbox provided under 'Please input your SQL query'
and overwrite the previous query.

The system will automatically reset the nodes and annotations for the new query.

Enjoy using the application!




